---
title: 'First post'
description: 'The beginning'
pubDate: 'Feb 03 2025'
heroImage: '/blog-1.jpg'
---

I decided to start a blog for personal accountability and to have an archive of the things I’ve learned and built (or tried to build). I’m committing to uploading at least once per weekday (with exceptions for severe natural disasters, utterly debilitating illness, etc.), no content requirements whatsoever so there may be some placeholder uploads. This is simply to establish and maintain the habit of creation, and possibly more importantly publication, regardless of whether anyone actually sees it. Historically I have been loath to post on social media or do anything really which might involve anyone observing anything I have done and thereby judging. Recently, whether by the possibly natural indifference that comes with age or an incidental shift in my circle of concern, I no longer care sufficiently about that for it to impede me from “putting something out there”. So here it is, or at least the beginning of it.

I expect the quality level will continue along at something resembling self-important sub-par rambling in most people’s evaluation for quite some time. That is also, somewhat, the point. I have wallowed in a low-grade dopamine bath dulling the senses à la Brave New World for sufficiently long that the process of knocking the rust and dirt off the gears of my gasping mind will not be complete at the end of even a couple weeks of desperately struggling to write several paragraphs of tenuously connected words per day. But it is in the struggle we find meaning, or something to that effect.

I do enjoy writing. Something about it is healing. I believe someone famous once said “I write to find out what I think”. That resonates. Taking a break from an endless cycle of ravenous consumption to digest what limited experiences I have had along with the deluge of others’ experiences and interpretations is refreshing in a way not much else matches. I have always valued “taking a break”. Recently too much arguably. But creation is another type of rest, another type of rejuvenation.

All of my attempts at personal programming projects have gone hilariously awry, none of them even close to finished. This documentation effort will partially be an exploration and quest to find out why, and how to finish something that exists in the world. I have been doing algorithmic exercises to warm up the brain, but turning to a project, to creation, ostensibly entirely from my own mind, I find myself as has often been the case wanting to turn to others for the answer, for idea generation, for a tutorial, for steps to take, for the way to do it right. After all, too much could go wrong for me to trust myself to do the planning and execution. And one mistake cascades into the next and then you might as well just throw your hands up and walk away, retreating back into the safe cave of consumption of others’ acts of creation.

I’d like to have the bravery to not do that anymore, to get to the actual point of failure, if that’s where it ends up, and really try to wiggle my way out, rather than giving up because I think I can see that same failure in the distance. To, perhaps stupidly, bullheadedly, painstakingly wade through all pain that is involved with making something that works and that I’m somewhat okay with the result of. And so begins the chronicling of that attempt, this entry itself being the first example of finishing something, regardless of quality.