---
title: 'League of Legends in Real Life'
description: 'An Argumentative Essay'
pubDate: 'Feb 04 2025'
heroImage: '/blog-2.jpg'
---

League of Legends. Perhaps you’ve heard of it. It serves as an astoundingly powerful addictive draw in the realm of feeling more powerful™. Does it kill the creative spirit, leaving the user a shattered husk, devoid of empathy, seething, boiling over with rage and misanthropy? Sometimes, certainly. Many such cases. But, does it also provide an easy to access superstimulation of synthetic personal growth? Sometimes, and to some people, certainly. Is this entirely a bad thing? I think framing the question with “entirely bad” is disingenuous and I refuse to answer such a leading question. It’s probably mostly bad, yes.

With that out of the way, we move to the freeform section of today’s entry, in which we discuss reinforcement learning agents capable of playing games. Someone somewhere said (paraphrased obviously) “true intelligence must be embodied”. That is, without the ability to affect the environment, and receive input back on the environmental impact of those actions in some way (muscles/movement and senses), without the ability that enables to run continuous experiments on the way the system of the environment and oneself works in some way, intelligence is simply brain in a jar computation churning away, and could probably safely be labelled as distinct from true intelligence.

So what of these agents that operate in the (admittedly more limited than “base” reality) environment of video games? Are they already intelligent, provided they (as some do) converge towards along some optimization function towards an action policy that leads to some measure of “success” in that environment? Sure, why not? Does it matter? Intelligence could be viewed as distinct from consciousness, and rather more precisely and limitedly defined to include such agents, and also, more interestingly, agents which are embodied in our physical world in the housing of robotics. Intelligent, we’re-not-sure-if-they’re-conscious robots optimizing along some reward function towards an optimal action policy according to that reward function. Sounds like a very fun large-scale experiment to run, and I’m shocked more resources aren’t being poured into this. Just think of the military application alone for crying out loud! (The main reason, one might argue, for all technological developments).

In light of this, could not the entire world be turned into one glorious League of Legends game, gamified dopamine (or similar) drips marking the wobbly road towards increased growth™? Isn’t the pure excitement of such a fine-tuned world alone worth trying to make it a reality? Say it with me: “Unleash fully autonomous reinforcement learning robots with military capabilities and unknown reward functions on the general populace now!” Wasn’t that fun? And we can hard code into the reward function all of those fun trolly problem results we’ve all been working so hard on. And beyond even the military there is the second most important driver of technological innovation (or maybe it’s the same I forget): sexual arousal and stimulation. Many glorious years of triumph lie ahead folks.
